Hello everyone and welcome to this lecture and this lecture.
We're going to cover two main concepts or important concepts in Python programming.
And they are dictionaries and booleans.
All right.
So first the God thing.
The dictionaries.
Well first what do you mean by dictionaries so.
Dictionaries are mainly used to define kind of what we call a key value pairs.
So simply put we define instead of defying just a single integers for instance or finding a simple single
float for example or let's say a list as we covered before here we're going to have kind of you know
more advanced form more advanced data type that we call a dictionary okay.
Think of the dictionary as a translator.
OK.
You list a list of keys associated with values.
And that's what we call it.
Key value pair are.
So you can have a key that has a certain value and then another key that can give you another value
on another key 3 they give you another value.
And that's pretty much how can you actually define a dictionary.
So if you wanted to access a specific value Okay within the dictionary you don't access it with an index
as we have done before.
When we described lists actually again access this value using its key.
Okay.
Again think of it as kind of a door you are opening the door.
You know like of axing that value you're using that specific key associated with that value.
Okay.
What's the importance of it.
Again I'm going to have tons of examples are going to show you what they mean by dictionaries and why
do we even need it for.
Own.
So let's go ahead and define our first dictionary.
Okay.
Let's get started.
So first let's assume they wanted to define a dictionary and say okay my dictionary for example equals
to the defined dictionary using Quilly brackets so we do this to define a dictionary and then you associate
simply key value pips or case you do this column and you do this all right.
Basically he defined the key he defined the value associated to that key.
Simply put it is a key one.
And you're going to say okay value 1 that will be the first key value pair.
We do comma press enter our right and we can do the same thing again.
Or I I'm going to hit again here.
Define key to get.
We can actually do this just to make a little bit more creevy if you value too great.
Sounds great comma and then we define the last element which is again.
Key.
Three associated two values three.
All right.
And that's pretty much how can you define your first dictionaries and how we define a dictionary that
has a key value pairs.
Basically you can access that value using a specific key associated with that value.
That's pretty much it.
Let's run it actually looks good.
So we forward it to view let's say my dictionary.
If I wanted to view it there.
Okay.
There's actually a key added value to the value and so on so forth.
Great.
What I wanted to take a look at the type of unisex type of dictionary that of my dictionary or if I
had that they we'll say well I did a typo extradition which makes sense.
And we're expecting this letter.
Can we access elements within the dictionary.
Let's assume they wanted to access this value.
Compared to lists if you wanted to access specific elements within the list you can access them using
the index right here to access elements within a dictionary you access them using their key.
So let's see how can we access this specific elements within our dictionary look at what you could do
and say okay my dictionary or print square brackets and then inside the square brackets you say okay
I need the value associated to ketu.
All right.
It's like open for example that specific door opened the door using this basically key.
So you can return this event food that you would come up with value too which is associated to spot
the corresponding key listicle look at some we know more practical example let's assume that I wanted
to find a dictionary that contains the information about Apple iPhone X which as you know was released
let's say in 20 18 for example.
Let's do this.
The week in my dictionary sorry my dictionary equals to open again colia brackets.
What you could do is say okay I'm going to list here for example my brand is Apple.
Right.
The first one the first element the dictionary and the second element means the key.
My model is iPhone.
X for example whatever you can call it.
Okay.
And then they're going to specify Okay my year is simply 2018.
Right.
Well you could do can do this.
Okay looks great.
So we define brand this Apple model as iPhone X and year is 2013 looks great.
If I had done it then you'd find a dictionary if you wanted to print Let's see addiction against Hey
print my discourse dictionary ranit you come up with a brand Apple model iPhone year 2013 looks great.
What if I wanted for example to access iPhone X. How can it access this.
So there's again using its keenness.
Okay.
Go to my dictionary open escrow bracket at access simply my model.
If you do this you say okay go to my dictionary get whatever corresponding to my model.
We're going to turn my iPhone x.
Okay that's great.
What if I wanted for example to access let's say.
The second element for example would assume they want to access my for example year 2014 I can say okay
I can go to my dictionary and square brackets and access my year.
If I do this within it in 2018.
Okay perfect.
What if I wanted to let's say an item an existing dictionary.
How can we do that.
We can do that by again assigning.
OK.
Going to the my dictionary.
I wanted to ask an item or adline to my dictionary.
Okay which is the exact indication of that.
Have you called binding my dictionary and add let's assume thing that for example column.
Okay and that column will have an associated value you're going to say OK it equals to and then you
specify let's say the value which is read.
Basically what you have done here is adding existing elements to your existing dictionary or I find
that nothing happened.
Aquarius thing looks good and it can go in here say okay print my underscored dictionary and that you
would find that column red has been added to your dictionary which is great right.
What if I wanted for example to delete a specific element within a dictionary.
What you could do again to say okay use delete and then you can specify for example I wanted to let
say delete my brand Apple x.
Apple do that Mexico when I do delete for instance the bell will stand for delete What's my name of
my dictionary.
My dict open square brackets anyone to delete the entire brand.
For example if I did on that and if I come here desiccate print my dictionary around it you'll find
the brand has been gone just model year and cholera's it's the only values that have been appearing
here.
What if I wanted to delete for example the entire dictionary.
Let's see.
Can we do this.
We can delete it by seeing a kid.
My underscored a dictionary that would do the entire thing not just here.
As we deleted just one key value pair.
He is going to do the entire thing.
Let's leave it.
It is gone already.
Let's assume that no one is for example you not as are unknown in a okay let's say print are going to
print my dictionary on it then look.
Well I don't know where that is because you know my diction is not defined because you just deleted
their type of thing.
OK.
That's pretty much all what I have for the dictionary.
So let's add a cover.
Let's give you again.
Review what we have done so far.
Here we know how can we find a dictionary as a kind of a key value period.
Now we know how can we walk in the type of the dictionary.
How can we let say X a specific element within the dictionary using its key.
So by the key kind of thing the value which is great.
Now I know how can we add element within a dictionary.
How can I delete a specific item or key value paired with in the dictionary.
And how can and delete the entire thing.
All right.
And that's pretty much kind of a quick summary of dictionaries and getting getting them extensively
within the practical aspect of the approach.
OK the next topic that I wanted to discuss is what Khalid booleans already so booleans are values that
can be presented as one of two coniston objects either false or to booleans behave like an integers
of 0 or 1 or 8.
What do you mean by that.
So in general when we are in computer systems in general or everything you see on the screen that you
see or the colleges you see of the numbers you are doing everything is just presented as bunch of zeros
and one were to zero indicates false.
One indicates two.
That's pretty much it.
Okay by putting all these zeros in one next to each other then you come up with kind of you know a meaning
to it.
OK so you can you can basically put your send the message using these bunch of zeros and ones.
And that's what I call a booleans.
OK.
So when we define for example specifically at say Number 9 or 8 or whenever these are called decimal
numbers in booleans.
Okay the B's is 2 which means we only have two combinations either 0 or 1.
That's it that's all we could do.
So in Python what we could stuka see okay if I say true.
Okay you see that has a list of there's green okay which means that this is basically reserved.
Kind of you know seeing one that means.
Initially that has been satisfied and there is a flag.
There is a qualitative one which means right which means it's true which means 1.
If we think about false is basically far off okay whodunit.
That's basically false.
OK so what's the advantage of doing this.
Actually you can use a true and false in what we call it the condition the statements were going to
cover puns of condition statements in the future.
We're going to learn how to do if conditions and how to do a conditional statements and so on.
Here is a quick example.
Let's assume that we have for instance X equals stem for instance n I define other variable y equal
stenn and what I could do if they wanted to see okay.
Please can you check if X.
Okay that's you know you might like a little big.
Get a little bit surprised but then do something strange here and then say is X equals equals y right.
That's it.
So what I have done here is basically this is what assignment which means a put value of 10 inside X
would value 10 inside y.
This lists copy it here and separate one.
This is what we call it compared isten work comparing single word checking.
Okay what a single key.
Could you please check if X equals to y.
We do this by doing equal equal.
OK.
Looks strange but that's how it is in most programming languages.
So we need to find x equals y m single k.
Could you please you're asking kind of person to check it.
Can you tell me if X equals Y Not and on it it's only when it's actually true.
Why.
Because it is true.
X was 10 and Y was 10.
OK what if I saw him change this and make it let's say to.
If I ran it and he did.
Asking could you please tell me if X equals equals y.
If I did that's only well not that's false.
That's kind of a flagged as you call it zero.
Okay.
And then you can put whatever that answer in in somewhere else or printed in the screen for example
eg this print for instance.
And they're going to print it on the screen and they reckon you'll get well.
It's fops OK.
Obviously there are tons of stuff that we could do here that are not equal or greater than or equal.
You can do whatever just you again are going to have an entire lecture discover that.
But just seen a quick overview let's say I wanted to print a key if X for example is greater than y.
OK.
If I had that if I have that and then well that's true why.
Because X was 10 and Y was actually 2 so conditions state statement can.
You're comparing the two.
And since the answer is true and when I reply back with a boolean value of true which is you know kind
of while you are discussing the bullion's to start with again.
To summarize bullion's means you add ones or to add false.
We can use them extensively through the practical aspect of the course and that's pretty much all what
we have for this lecture.
Again you're getting closer to messing Python.
I hope you enjoyed it and see you in the exercises.